# Paternity Policy
This policy outlines when an employee may be entitled to paternity leave and paternity pay and sets out the arrangements for taking it.  Paternity leave is available on the birth of a child if you have been continuously employed by us for at least 26 weeks ending with the 15th week before the Expected Week of Childbirth and either: 
You are the biological father and will have some responsibility for the child’s upbringing; or 
You are the husband, civil partner or cohabiting partner of the biological mother and will have the main responsibility (with the mother) for the child’s upbringing.  
## Ordinary Paternity Leave (OPL)
Ordinary paternity leave (OPL) is a period of one or two weeks’ consecutive leave taken when a child is born.  You can start your leave on the date of birth, or later, provided it is taken within 8 weeks (56 days) of the birth.  If the baby is premature the period ends 8 weeks after the start of the Expected Week of Childbirth. To take OPL you must give us written notice by the end of the 15th week before the Expected Week of Childbirth or as soon as you reasonably can, stating: 
The Expected Week of Childbirth; 
Whether you intend to take one week or two weeks’ leave; and 
When you would like your leave to start.  
You can change the intended start date by giving us 28 days’ notice or, if this is not possible, as much notice as you can. 
## Additional Paternity Leave (APL)
Additional paternity leave (APL) is a further period of leave that is only available if the child’s mother has returned to work after taking maternity, or after a period of entitlement to statutory maternity or maternity allowance in respect of the child.  APL cannot start until at least 20 weeks after the birth, it cannot last more than 26 weeks in total and must end within 12 months of the birth.  To take APL you must provide us with the following at least 8 weeks before the date you would like you leave to start: 
A written “leave notice” stating: 
the Expected Week of Childbirth and the child’s actual date of birth: 
The dates you would like your APL to start and finish. 
A signed “employee declaration” confirming that you satisfy the eligibility conditions set out above for APL and wish to take the leave to care for this child. 
A written “mother declaration” from the child’s mother stating:
Their name, address and National Insurance number; 
The date they intend to return to work; 
confirmation that you are the child’s biological father or the mother’s partner, and that you have or expect to have responsibility for the child’s upbringing; 
That, to his or her knowledge, you are the only person exercising an entitlement to APL in respect of the child; and 
That they consent to us processing the information they have provided.  
Once we receive the above we will write to you within 28 days to confirm the APL start date and your expected return date.   We may require you to provide a copy of the child’s birth certificate and the name and address of the mother’s employer or, if she is self-employed, her business address.  
You can cancel APL, or change the start or end dates by giving us at least 6 weeks’ written notice.  If this is not possible, give us as much written notice as you can, but if we are unable to accommodate the change on such short notice we may still require you to start APL as previously notified under/or finish APL six weeks after your written notice (or on the date previously notified, if earlier). 
## Paternity Pay
Ordinary statutory paternity pay (OSPP) is payable during OPL provided you have at least 26 weeks’ continuous employment ending with the Qualifying Week (the 15th week before the Expected Week of Childbirth) and your average earnings are not less than the lower earnings limit set by the government each tax year.   Additional statutory paternity pay (ASPP) may be payable during APL if you qualified for OSPP and the child’s mother has returned to work with at least 2 weeks of their 39 week maternity allowance or maternity pay period remaining.  ASPP is payable to you for the unexpired remainder of that period.  The rate of OSPP and ASPP is set by the Government each tax year.  For further information contact a Director.
## During Paternity Leave
All the terms and conditions of your employment remain in force during OPL and APL, except for the terms relating to pay.  Annual leave entitlement will continue to accrue during OPL and APL at the rate provided under your contract.  If you are taking a period of APL which will continue into the next holiday year, any holiday entitlement that cannot reasonably be taken before starting APL can be carried over.  Please discuss your holiday plans with your Manager in good time before starting APL.  All holiday dates are subject to approval by your Manager.  If you are a member of the pension scheme, we shall make employer contributions during OPL and any period of paid APL, based on your normal salary, in accordance with the pension scheme rules.  Any employee contributions you make will be based on the amount of any paternity pay you are receiving unless you inform a Director that you wish to make up any shortfall.  
We may make reasonable contact with you from time to time during APL although we will keep this to a minimum.  You may work (including attending training) on up to 10 “keeping-in-touch” days during your APL.  This is not compulsory and must be discussed and agreed with your Manager.  You will be paid at your normal basis rate of pay for time spent working on a “keeping-in-touch” day and this will be inclusive of any paternity pay entitlement.  
## Returning to work
You must return to work after APL on the expected return date unless you tell us otherwise.  If you wish to return to work early, you must give us at least 6 weeks’ notice of the date.  It is helpful if you give this notice in writing.  You may be able to return later than the expected return date if you request annual leave, which will be at our discretion.  You are normally entitled to return to work following either OPL or APL to the same position you held before commencing leave.  Your terms of employment will be the same as they would have been had you not been absent.  However, if you have combined OPL or APL with another type of family-related leave please see the relevant policy as the position may be slightly different.  If you decide that you do not want to return to work you should give notice of resignation in accordance with your contract. 
