# Sickness and Absence Policy 
We all feel a bit under the weather sometimes.  At Opus Works we want to maintain attendance standards by taking a fair approach to managing absence.  Our policy helps everyone to understand what needs to happen when someone is too ill to come to work for a short or long term.  Our policy isn’t just a way of giving out warnings, we want to give support and guidance to people who need to improve their attendance.  Abuse of sickness absence however, including failing to report absence or falsely claiming sick pay or unauthorised absence will be treated as misconduct under our Disciplinary Procedure.  Unless otherwise stated this policy applies to employees of the company only and not contractors. 
## Reporting when you are sick
If you cannot attend work because you are sick or injured you should telephone your Manager as early as possible and no later than 30 minutes after the time when you are normally expected to start work.  This applies to all Opus Works colleagues including employees and contractors. This should also be logged in Harvest.
## Evidence of incapacity 
You must complete a self-certification form for sickness absence of up to seven calendar days.  For absence of more than a week you must obtain a certificate from your doctor stating that you are not fit for work, giving the reason.  You must also complete a self-certification form to cover the first seven days.  If absence continues beyond the expiry of a certificate, a further certificate must be provided.  
If your doctor provides a certificate stating that you “may be fit for work” you must inform your Manager immediately.  We will hold a discussion with you about how to facilitate your return to work, taking account of your doctor’s advice.  If appropriate measures cannot be taken you will remain on sick leave and we will set a date for review. 
## Sick Pay
You may be entitled to sick pay if you satisfy the relevant statutory and contractual requirements.  Details of your sick pay entitlement is set out in your contract of employment.   
## Return to work interviews
After a period of sick leave your Manager may hold a return to work interview with you.  The purposes may include: 
Ensuring you are fit for work and agreeing any actions necessary to facilitate your return; 
Confirming you have submitted the necessary certificates; 
Updating you on anything that may have happened during your absence; 
Raising any other concerns regarding your absence record or your return to work. 
## Managing long term or persistent absence
The following paragraphs set out our procedure for dealing with long term absence or where your level or frequency of short term absence has given us cause for concern.  The purpose of this procedure is to investigate and discuss the reasons for your absence, whether it is likely to continue or recur, and whether there are any measures that could improve your health and/or attendance.  We may decide that medical evidence, or further medical evidence is required before deciding on a course of action.  
We will notify you of the time, date and place of any meeting and why it is being held.  Meetings will be conducted by your Manager.  You may bring a colleague to any meeting or appeal meeting under this procedure.  Your colleague will also be allowed reasonable paid time off from duties to act as your companion.  If you or your companion cannot attend at the time specified you should let us know as soon as possible and we will try, within reason, to agree an alternative time.  If you have a disability, we will consider whether reasonable adjustments may need to be made to the sickness absence meeting procedure, or to your role or working arrangements. 
## Medical Examinations
We may ask you to consent to a medical examination by a doctor or occupational health professional or other specialist nominated by us (at our expense).  You will be asked to agree that any medical report produced may be disclosed to us and that we may discuss the contents of the report with the specialist and with our advisers. All medical reports will be kept confidential and held in accordance with our Data Protection Policy. 
Initial Sickness Absence Meeting 
The purposes of a sickness absence meeting or meetings will be to discuss the reasons for your absence, how long it is likely to continue, whether it is likely to recur, whether to obtain a medical report, and whether there are any measures that could improve your health and/or attendance.  In cases of long-term absence, we may seek to agree a return to work programme, possibly on a phased basis.  In cases of short-term, intermittent absence, we may set a target for improved attendance within a certain timescale. 
## If matters do not improve
If, after a reasonable time, you have not been able to return to work or if your attendance has not improved within the agreed timescale, we will hold a further meeting or meetings. We will seek to establish whether the situation is likely to change, and may consider redeployment opportunities at that stage.  If it is considered unlikely that you will return to work or that your attendance will improve within a short time, we may give you a written warning.  We may also set a further date for review. 
## Final Sickness Absence meeting 
Where you have previously received a written warning, and the situation has not changed significantly, we will hold a meeting to consider the possible termination of your employment.  Before we make a decision, we will consider any matters you wish to raise and whether there have been any changes since the last meeting. 
## Appeals
You may appeal against the outcome of any stage of this procedure. If you wish to appeal you should set out your appeal in writing to your Manager stating your grounds of appeal, within one week of the date on which the decision was sent or given to you.   
If you are appealing against a decision to dismiss you, we will hold an appeal meeting normally within two weeks of receiving the appeal.  This will be dealt with impartially and, where possible, by another manager who has not previously been involved in the case.  
We will confirm our final decision in writing, usually within one week of the appeal hearing. There is no further right of appeal.  The date that any dismissal takes effect will not be delayed pending the outcome of an appeal.  However, if the appeal is successful, the decision to dismiss will be revoked with no loss of continuity or pay. 
