# Health and Safety at Work Policy
This policy sets out our arrangements for ensuring that we meet our health and safety obligations to colleagues and anyone visiting our premises or affected by our work.   We will continue to review this policy to ensure it is achieving its aims. This policy applies to all Opus Works colleagues i.e. employees, directors and contractors. 
## Your responsibilities
All Opus Works colleagues share responsibility for achieving safe working conditions.  You must take care of your own health and safety and that of others, observe applicable safety rules and follow instructions for the safe use of equipment.   You should report any health and safety concerns immediately to your Manager.   You must co-operate with your Manager on health and safety including the investigation of any incident.  Failure to comply with this policy may be treated as misconduct and dealt with under our Disciplinary Procedure.  We will inform and consult directly with all Opus Works colleagues regarding health and safety matters. 
## Accidents and First Aid
All accidents and injuries at work, however minor, should be reported to a Director and recorded in the Accident Book which is kept online "here".   First aid kits are also kept in the office kitchen areas, please contact a Director if you are unable to locate one.
## Fire Safety and Risk Assessments
All Opus Works colleagues should familiarise themselves with the fire safety instructions which are displayed in the office.   If you hear a fire alarm, leave the building immediately by the nearest fire exit and go to the fire assembly point (shown on the fire safety instructions).  Fire drills will be held approximately once every 12 months and must be taken seriously.  We also have an annual external fire risk assessment.   
We carry out general workplace risk assessments periodically.  The purpose is to assess the risks to health and safety of employees, visitors and other third parties as a result of our activities and to identify any measures that need to be taken to control those risks. 
## Computers and Display Screen Equipment
We will ensure that you are given adequate training and supervision to perform your work competently and safely.  Opus Works Colleagues will be given health and safety training as and when considered necessary.   You must use equipment in accordance with any instructions given to you.  Any equipment fault or damage must immediately be reported to your Manager.    
As you use a computer screen or other display screen equipment (DSE) as a significant part of your work, you are entitled to a workstation assessment and regular eyesight tests by an optician at our expense.  Further information on workstation assessments and eye tests can be obtained from a Director.
